Purpose of this Document:

Describe, in lay terms, what will be needed to automate combat in the game: Usurper.

Problem:

Right now, combat takes a lot of time to handle as games progress, moreso than any other aspect of the game.  With combat being so prevalent, this makes running a game very difficult over months of real life time.  This also makes play-testing new components of the game even more difficult, as combat will inevitably occur in even the smallest of test runs.

Basic Description of what a BASIC version of an Automated App/Script should do ("Minimum Viable Product"):

Bottom Line Up Front (BLUF): Allow the user to enter the units of each side of a combat, press a "Fight" button, and then perform all of the steps of a combat, displaying the results in a text output.

Long Explanation:
1) Accept Entries of Entities according to the basic game rules into the script.
2) Allow Entry of "Buffs" (bonuses/penalties) to individual units, and whole teams.
3) Assign Two teams to the script (labeled as "Aggressor" vs "Aggressor" or "Aggressor" vs "Defender")
4) Roll dice of the appropriate types.
5) Follow the combat sequence.
6) Display each step of the combat sequence to the user and describe the outcomes/results of the dice rolls.
7) Follow the "targeting" priority rules of combat.

Desired Functionalities:

1) Page/Tool to Enter Entities into the app/script.

A user should be able to Pick "Side 1" or "Side 2" and one or more entities to each side.
The user should be able to setup the information for that entity, including: stats, skills, spells, items (with their qualities), abilities, targeting rules.

2) Drop-down/selection tool to describe either side as being Aggressor or Defender.

Script/App will need to recognize these terms for purposes of following the strategy phase rules (a few skills apply depending if you're the aggressor/defender.)
Script/App will need to validate that BOTH sides have NOT been set to Defender, allowing only one side at a time to be a Defender.

3) Set "Team"-wide bonuses/penalties.

To keep this "basic", instead of individually listing every possible bonus that could get added and having a giant wall of checkboxes or some other nonsense, the user simply needs the ability to enter bonuses and penalties for ranged and melee combat.
Something along the lines of:
"Ranged Offense: +1d6"
"Ranged Defense: +1"
"Melee Armor: -[1d6-1]" (a negative value)
"Morale: +2"
These bonuses/penalties will then be added to EVERY relevant roll for that side.

4) A button which begins the calculator script to run the fight between the two sides.

The script should then follow all of the combat phases, printing out the results of each step into a text file, stating the following:
a) The Phase
b) The Side/Entity to/for whom the roll applies.
c) The dice roll + the total
d) The results of that/those rolls.

Example:

Team 1, Squad A Attacks Team 2, Squad B in Melee, Round1.
Squad A rolled 12 on Offense for a total of 22.
Squad B rolled 9 on Defense for a total of 9.
Result: This is a hit.
Squad A rolled 11 on Damage for a total of 17.
Squad B rolled 16 on Armor for a total of 20.
Result: No damage dealt.


